---
layout: post
title: A blog to call my own
permalink: a-blog
---

I have been going back and forth for a while between WordPress, Ghost, and Jekyll. After some research and internal debate I decided to go with a Ghost blog installed on a virtual machine with Amazon. 

The setup and install went quick. There is a one click Ghost installer in the AWS Marketplace that got the virtual machine up and running in no time! My domains are through Google Domains (partly because they include WHOIS anonymization in the domain price) so I changed my name servers to Amazon's provided through the Route 53, added an A record pointing to my Ghost virtual machine static IP, and waited for the magic to hapen. And waited. And waited some more. After more than a week of [read-search-ask](https://github.com/FreeCodeCamp/FreeCodeCamp/wiki/How-to-get-help-when-you-get-stuck) and messing with my settings, I gave up-for the time being. I fully intend on figuring out how to set up a virtual machine and making it work, in fact I haven't given up on that Ghost instance; I use it as a part of my portfolio to demonstrate some back end skills. 

Anyways, after all of that I came back to Jekyll or WordPress. One of the first web-y things that I did was to migrate my wife's WordPress to Bluehost and point it at a custom domain; [liesllove](http://liesllove.com). However, WordPress doesn't let me play and build and customize. It is harder to dig into the back end and have full control. At least harder than playing around with a GitHub repo.

Aaaaand that is how I got here. Finally. I just wanted a relatively easy set up and a simple way to blog. Jekyll with GitHub pages is all of that. I can easily play with all the aspects of my site while not having to worry about complicated back end set ups. Add-commit-push and voila! Site updated. It is as easy as pie. Which is not that easy, actually, but you understand.