---
layout: post
title: DIGHT250
permalink: dight250-012516
---

###New HTML



1. `blockquote`
2. `div`
    - Meaningless, generic - "division"
    - Used for organizing things
    - Block level container
3. `span`
    - Generic inline container, like `div`
4. `section`
    - Like `div` but has semantic meaning
    - Implies that everything in that `section` is related
5. `figure`
    - Like in a textbook, picture.
    - Generally used with `figcaption`
6. `figcaption`
    - Caption for your `figure`
    - Generally used with `figure`



###New CSS



1. `id`
    - `#` Only happens once per page
    - Footer, navbar, anything unique on the page.
2. `class`
    - `.` Can happen multiple times per page
    - p elements
    - Both `id` and `class` overwrite your CSS for generic html elements. So for example if you have a `<p>` element and you have a `<p class = "fun">` element your CSS for the `.fun` element/elements will not be overridden by your CSS for your `p` elements.


###Box Model


####Pieces
1. Content
2. Padding
3. Border
4. Margins

!(/assets/boxmodel.png "Box model from Wikipedia")

###Pseudo-class

Example: `<a>`


1. `:link`
2. `:visited`
3. `:hover`
    - Every item on the page can use `:hover`
4. `:active`


Have to be styled in a specific order: _L_ord _V_ader _H_ates _A_sthmatics, or in other words; in the order listed above. You don't have to style everyone, in most cases you style `:link` `:hover`, sometimes `:active`.


_CSS_ (_C_ascading _S_tyle _S_heets) are read in cascading fashion; from top to bottom. If you have issues with your CSS, always check how your CSS is reading, maybe you put something out of order.


###Pseudo-elements

Two colons. Applies the specified CSS to the first line or first letter of your element. Targets a piece of your content.


1. ::first-line
2. ::first-letter


###Fonts


Out of the box you are limited to what fonts are in the end user's computer. This is stinky and makes things horrible. Web safe fonts are not pretty. So what do we do?

####@font-face

Host the font on your server to serve it to your end users. Complicated since a lot of font makers don't like you using their creations in this way, kind of legal gray area.


So what else is there?


####[Google fonts!](https://www.google.com/fonts)


Gets rid of the legal gray issues with font-face by using fonts that Google makes available for free. In essence, Google fonts is using font-face and serving it through their servers. Anyways, this is a nice solution.


###[Font stacks](http://www.cssfontstack.com/)

font-family: 'PT sans', Arial, sans-serif;


1. When a font name has a space in it you have to use 'quotes' around it or you will break your CSS.
2. You use a list of fonts as a back up list/list of choices in case one of your fonts breaks/doesn't work.
3. Font stacks are becoming less necessary since inception of Google fonts.




