---
layout: post
title: DIGHT250
permalink: dight250-012716
---

###CSS

1. `Border-radius`
    - Makes things round. Rounds corners and can turn things into circles.
    - Higher the radius = rounder the corners.
    - Can use % or pixels, 50% = perfect circle.
    - Can change just 1-3 side/s if you want.
    - Border color defaults to text color.
2. `float`
    - Use to make layout.
    - Left, right, or none.
    - Taken out of the normal flot of the page (top to bottom, L-R) and sent to as far right or left of parent element as possible.
3. `clear`
    - Kind of opposite of `float`.
    - Left, right, both, inherit, or none.
    - `clear: left;` will move item below floated item.
4. `@media`
    - Allows you to specify when a certain CSS rule is applied.
    - Really good explanation/tutorial of thie by Google [here](https://developers.google.com/web/fundamentals/getting-started/your-first-multi-screen-site/responsive?hl=en).
    - Start your design with a _Mobile First_ mindset, [this](https://codemyviews.com/blog/mobilefirst) is why.
    - Break points tell your site when to adjust for different resolutions.


####New code

```
<meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0" />
```

You need to add this to any page you want to be responsive. Remember, all `<meta>` tags go in your `<header>`.

`content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0` = Tells browser to not zoom when page is loaded, so this way your site looks good loaded on a phone or desktop.



```
@media screen and (min-device-width: 400px)
```

This is a media query, telling your site what media type/resolution you are targeting. Tells your site that as soon as the device has a `min` of `400px` then change the design. For desktops you would have `max-device-width`.

####Stylesheets


The order that you bring stylesheets into your html matters. Your html loads from top to bottom, so you want to put your normalize.css first, followed by your main stylesheet. LPT: put your responsive styles in a separate stylesheet loaded after your main stylesheet.


####Mobileness


Go mobile first. Use `min-device-width` to tell your site how to behave on smaller resolutions.

All future assignments have to be responsive. This is because any website built from now on _have_ to be responsive if you want them to be modern and useful to your users.


####Check your code


Here are some tools to check your code:

1. [Developer Tools](https://developer.chrome.com/devtools)
    - Shows you your code, lets you manipulate it and see changes right away on the page.
2. [HTML Validator](https://validator.w3.org/)
    - Will tell you if your HTML is formatted properly.
3. [CSS Validator](http://jigsaw.w3.org/css-validator/)
    - Will tell you if your CSS is formatted properly.

Half of our grade will be dependent on valid code, so _USE THESE!_
