---
layout: post
title: DIGHT250
permalink: dight250-021616
---

###Tables and forms, oh my!

####Table basics

Used for tabular data. Sometimes useful to layout forms. Do not use for general site layout.

1. `<table>`
2. `<tr>`
    - Table row.
3. `<th>`
    - Table header.
4. `<td>`
    - Table data.

####Table intermediates

1. `<caption></caption>`
2. `<thead></thead>`
    - Top
3. `<tbody></tbody>`
    - Body
4. `<tfoot></tfoot>`
    - Footer

Good for accessibility - being able to tell a screen reader where on the table the user is.


####Table advanced

1. `colspan=" "`
    - Like 'merge' in excel, merges horizontally.
2. `rowspan=" "`
    - Like 'merge' in excel, merges vertically.


####Table CSS

Table cells are block level. Here's some CSS to style that bad table up:

1. `border-collapse: collapse|separate`
2. `border-spacing`
3. `vertical-align: top|middle|bottom`


###Forms

Forms are used to take input from the user and spit them out to you. 

Most forms will look the same because we have to standardize some things. Cannot fully style forms like other html elements.


1. `<form></form>`
2. `<input>`
    - `text` - Defaults to this, most common.
    - `submit` - Shows up like a button, submits the form.
    - `radio` - Selectable circle thingys.
    - `checkbox` - Square checkbox.
    - ```color, date, datetime, email, month, number, range, search, tel, time, url, week...``` - A lot of these are new with HTML5. Some do cool things like `tel` field will pull up the number pad when selected on phone, `email` will add @ sign.
3. `<select></select>`
    - Dropdown menu.
4. `<option></option>`
    - Option in a dropdown menu.
5. `<textarea></textarea>`
    - Accepts text on multiple lines.


####Form intermediates

1. `<label>`
    - Tells you what the field is called/labeled.
2. `<fieldset></fieldset>`
    - Line around input box. More semantic meaning than `<div></div>`. Takes set of fields and sections them off.
3. `<legend></legend>`
    - Connects fields i.e. email and name. Label for the `<fieldset></fieldset>`.


####Form advanced

1. `disabled`
    - Makes it so you cannot click into or update a field.
2. `required`
    - Makes it so you can't submit a form without information put into field. Some fields are smart; if the field is `email` then it will not show as valid without @ and .domain fields.
3. `placeholder` will put grey text that will disappear when you start typing; typically 'Type here' or somesuch.

