---
layout: post
title: DIGHT250
permalink: dight350-020716
---

##CSS Box Model

1. Content
2. Padding
3. Border
4. Margin

`&nbsp` = non breaking space. This makes your spaces show up.

####Properties

1. Display
    - block = creates space above and below it (headers).
    - inline = flows with content.
    - inline-block = keeps box inline with content but allows greater formatting, like margins to left and right of box.
    - none = hides whatever is in the element. But can be useful for javascript.

HTML treats empty space as one space so:
```
<p>&nbsp;</p>
        <p>&nbsp;</p>
        <p>&nbsp;</p>
        <p>&nbsp;</p>
```

Puts a space between each `<p>` element, but

```
<p>&nbsp;</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>&nbsp;</p>
```

Gets rid of those spaces since there aren't any spaces between the `<p>` elements.

2. Basic dimensions
    - height, min-height, max-height:
        width, min-width, max-width:
    - Should rarely, if ever, use height, can break stuff.

3. Units of measurement
    - px = pixels, as in one pixel of your screen. Should be avoided if possible since pixels vary from monitor to monitor.
    - % = percent - Use this instead of pixels.

####Padding

Padding puts space between element and edge of it's space. Will show background color behind it - transparent.

Box model is additive, so when you add 10px to a 100px square element it makes it 120px square since you have 4 sides and each side gets 10px added to it.

However you can choose which side to add things to with your css like so:
```
header {
    padding: 10px 5px 10px 5px
}
```

This would add 10px to the _top_, 10px to the _right side_, 10px to the _bottom_, and 10px to the _left side_. CSS adds your property clockwise, starting from the top of the element. 

Two values, like so:

```
header {
    padding: 10px 5px
}
```

Would add 10px to _top_ and _bottom_ and 5px to _right_ and _left_

Three values would apply your padding to the _top_, _right_ and _left_, and _bottom_.


####Border

1. width: px
2. style: solid, dashed, dotted, double
3. color: # or rgb()

Also:

1. border-top
2. border-bottom-width
3. border-bottom-style
4. border-bottom-color


####Extras

`rgba()` introduces the a (alpha) channel into your color which is transparency.

`border-radius` — rounds the corners of an elements border

####Margin

Puts spacing between element, will not show background color behind it. with px or %. Works the same way as padding in terms of 1, 2, 3 or 4 values.

Vertical margin collapse makes things styled with CSS look as similar to a word document as possible. Vertical margins will collapse, but horizontal margins will _never_ collapse. So an element pushing on another element on top of it will collapse that element's bottom margins But side by side they will not be able to collapse each others' margins.

####Box-sizing

Allows you to change exactly how the box model works and how an element's size is calculated. This is awesome, gives you control over something that used to be impossible to control; you just had to fight it.

1. content-box [default]
2. padding-box
3. border-box



`auto` = tells browser that you have a fixed width and auto calculates margins on left and right to center your element. Probably fastest way to auto center things.


####Background

Determines all things background. Color, image, repeat image, no-repeat image, only repeat horizontally (x) or vertically (y). More variables than this, go and explore them.

1. background-color: #, rgb(), rgba()
2. background-image: url()
3. background-repeat: repeat, no-repeat, repeat-x, repeat-y
