---
layout: post
title: DIGHT350
permalink: dight350-021016
---

###PHP

####Bringing files together

1. `include()` 'It'd be nice to have this...' Brings in file no matter what. Runs a bit faster.
2. `require()` 'You have to have this...' Requires the file in order to run.
3. `include_once` Checks to see if the file is already there, if not it will bring it _once_. Runs a bit slower.
4. `require_once` Same as above, only requires file _once_.


####Associative arrays

Named indexing instead of numbered indexing. Access to deeper parts of a database/index.

`=>`  Assigns key to a value. Unique to associative array syntax.

`$array = array("key" => "value");` Instead of having a number index, you can use string. Helps get away from numbered indexing, making it easier to keep things straight. 

`$array = ["key" => "value"];` If using [bracket] syntax.

`foreach($aray as $key => $value)` Can access both key and value with `=>` syntax. 

####Programming logic

1. `if` `elseif` `else`
2. `switch`
    - Designed to handle many cases of if/else/elseif statements chained together. Beyond ~3 options makes sense to use.
3. `case`
    - Starts individual variable/case.
4. `break`
    - Ends individual variable/case.


####Functions


Something that does something; actions. Stored set of commands that can be called on when needed, reduces code repetition. Automate all the things!

`function my_function($argument) {//code here}` Declare the function and define it. Doesn't have to have argument.

`my_function($input)` Calling a function.

`return` Returns output back to function.


####Other stuff

1. `array_rand()` Randomly select an item in an array.
2. `asort()` Sorts array based on field.
3. `array_keys()` Returns keys, not values, from array.
4. `header()` Passes header to browser. Simple way to do a redirect. Keeps stuff from being broken.
5. `exit` Good for debugging, getting around errors that are killing code. Stops any further PHP from executing. Last line of defense
