---
layout: post
title: DIGHT350
permalink: dight350-022216
---

###Object Oriented Programming Basics

Write code when you need it, call it when you need it.


If you can understand the concepts behind OOP then you will be much better off.


####Non objects

1. Information (stored, reused, updated)
    - Stored in variables
2. Actions (things you need program to do)
    - Functions () (array_rand, include, header)


####Objects

Connecting things to objects makes set of data that is organized into a 'thing' - or an object. For example a car has multiple components that makes it up to be an object. So by taking multiple things/methods/functions and bringing them together you create an object. A class (blueprint) made reality.

1. Information 
    - Stored in properties
2. Actions
    - Methods ()


####Class

Establishes structure to bring all the things/methods together; like a blueprint. The plan for a thing. Reusable code.

First create a class, then instantiate an object (create an instance of an object).

`new` used to start new object instance.

`public` declares that value can be accessed 'publicly' or by another function/method.

`$this` built in to say that _this_ method is the method I want to select, the current object. References the instance of a class from within itself. Functions as a variable.

"The pseudo-variable `$this` is available when a method is called from within an object context. `$this` is a reference to the calling object (usually the object to which the method belongs, but possibly another object, if the method is called statically from the context of a secondary object)."

`->` 'this is an object' references method/property.


####Magic items

1. `__CLASS__` 
    - Self-reference
2. `__construct()`
    - When you instantiate a new object
3. `__destruct()`
    - When a script finishes and you clean up memory
    - Runs at the very end after everything else
    - Usually not used unless you are dealing with a large/complex program. 


####Inheritance

Establishing a _parent_ and _child_ classes. 

When you create a child class it inherits all of the properties/methods of it's parents.

The child class can also include it's own methods/properties to extend functionality of parent class.
