---
layout: post
title: DIGHT350
permalink: dight350-012616
---

###Database Normalization
	- Normalize database structure to avoid data side effects/anomalies
	- Minimize redesign if data expands



####Types of anomalies
 1. Update
 	- If you update one row and change value to something different than other rows
 	- Basically if you make one small change to your data and it breaks everything
 2. Insertion
 	- Insert different type than what is accepted/allowed in database
 3. Deletion
 	- Could delete everything with one typo
 	- If a type gets deleted and becomes `NULL`, but `NULL` is not allowed... 



####Normal Form

 >*A class of relations free from a certain set of modification anomalies.*


 Have names such as:

 1. _First normal form (1NF)_
 2. _2NF_
 3. 3NF
 4. Boyce-Codd normal form (BCNF)
 5. 4NF
 6. 5NF
 7. Domain-Key normal form (DK/NF)

 Thee are cumulative; something in 3NF is also in 2NF/1NF. We will learn 1NF and 2NF in this class.


####First Normal Form 1NF
 

 >*Each attribute (column) value must be a single value only.*


1. More fields you have, more complex your queries, the uglier everything gets. Don't do this.
2. Create more tables!
 - Use additional tables to separate values into single entries.



####Second Normal Form 2NF

>*A relation is in second normal form if it is free from partial-key dependencies*
>*Relations that have a single attribute for a key are automatically in 2NF.*


Partial key dependency = Two fields, connected in record, makes it unique. Problem is that if either of these fields change it breaks things. _Avoid this._


Naming conventions - Use table 1 singular _ table 2 singular. So a table that contains boxes_id and tents_id would be named box_tent. This way you can tell what your table contains at a glance. 


Use MyISAM engine explicitly in table creation so that you can create and use relationships, InnoDB does not do this and phpMyAdmin defaults to InnoDB.


Basically anything that can be duplicated in your table, create it in a different table. So if your table contains fields `id`  `boxes`  `tents`  `type`  `color` You would want to pull out `type` and `color` since you could have multiple tents of the same `type` and/or `color`.


By splitting these tables out, you lessen the occurrence of anomalies.


Start by mapping out all of your data, then ask the questions:


1. Do I have a field that has multiple values?
    - If so, change it.
2. What repeats in my table?
3. How can I simplify this table?
