---
layout: post
title: DIGHT250
permalink: dight250-011316
---

##Naming conventions


Name things (files, folders, pictures, all the things) ALL LOWERCASE, so the opposite of that; all lowercase. Name all the things this way, pretend that you are a heathen and have no idea how to type the words, do it all lowercase!


Also, don't put spaces in things. Writeallthethingswithoutspaces. No, seriously, do not use spaces in your folders, file names, picture names, or anything!


Hyphens - and underscores _ are acceptable. Most search engines treat - as if it were a space, so for SEO use - instead of _.


Another option is to use camelCase. This works, but if you/someone forgets and types the name in all lowercase it could not return any results. Just to be safe stick to one convention and remember it. Most people just name everything in all lowercase.


Your main page should always be called 'index.html'


##Cascading Style Sheets

Don't use inline styles, they are bad and if you use them then you are a bad person.

You can use an internal stylesheet, which is all of the styles contained in every one of your .html files, in the head area. But this is not the best option, instead use:


####External stylesheets! 
This will be a file that your .html files will reference and look to for the stylesheet. This file will end in .css and you should place it somewhere close to your index.html file. This way you only have to make edits in one spot, save time and be efficient. This is all about being lazy; find the most efficient way to do something so you only have to do it once/a very few times.


So how do you connect the two styles? With this self-closing tag:



`<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="path/to/your/stylesheet.css" />`



This goes in the `<head>` tag of your index.html and any other .html files you have. 




##Normalize.css


Normalizes default browser behavior so your site doesn't look all wonky if the browser messes up. Smoothes everything out so you can bring your own stylesheet in.


##Syntax


`selector {  
	property: rule;  
}`  


`selector` selects the item you wish to style, for example you could select `<p>` to select all of your `<p>` tags to style.


`property` is the specific property you want to apply to your selected item. So you could change the color of your `<p>` tags by using the 'color' property.


`rule` is the specific rule you want to apply to that property and selector. So you could change the color to blue for your `<p>` tag by applying the `rule` of `blue`.

###Comments


`/* This is how to write comments in CSS */`



##Selector basics


Element = p, body, h1.
Class = .special, .highlight
Id = #primary, #secondary (only happens once per page, unique.)



##Properties

Some basics:

width

margin

text-align

color


##Units

px = pixel

% = percentage


##Color

Web uses RGB.

###RGB

Each channel gets 0-255

Black - rgb(0,0,0)

White - rgb(255,255,255)

Red - rgb(200,25,0)

###Hexadecimal

Can be more efficient than using RGB. Use what you like/understand better. Just don't bounce back and forth between the two in your stylesheets.


Base 16 = 0-f(1-9, a-f)

#_ _ _ _ _ _

Comes in sets of two. First two = red, second two = green, last two = blue. Examples:


Black - #000000 or #000

White - #ffffff or #fff

Blue - #0000ff or #00f

Blue - #001996


Matching pairs can be shortened to one value; 000000 becomes 000.
