---
layout: post
title: Databases!
permalink: databases350
---
#DIGHT 350

##Databases!  

Just a place to store data for lata!
-Editable - CRUDe
	*Create
	*Read
	*Update
	*Delete
-Example:
	*File cabinet
	*Folder of recipes
	*Contact list
	*Your brain

###Two parts of database  

####Schema  

-Organization of data and it's relationships  

####Data  

-Information in a database  

###Examples  

####Relational  

-Bringing information together-connecting relevant data
	*Customer account info and customer cart
-SQLite, MySQL, Postgres  

####Other  

-Approach data differently
	*Flat files (What Yeremy described to me; all data in a long line)
-Redis, COuchDB, MongoDB  

###Tables  

-Collection of data; spreadsheet
-_Rows_ = records = data set = tuple (finite ordered list of elements)
	*I.E. grocery list
-_Columns_ = fields = property  

| Field       | Field        | Field  |
| ------------- |:-------------:| -----:|
| Value     | Value  | Value   |
| Value       | Value       |   Value  |
| Value  | Value      |    Value   |  

###How to talk to a database  

-Structured Query Language = SQL = 'Sequel'
-Statements/queries made up of keywords, clauses, and values.
-Clause helps to refine query
	*'Only show orders made in last 7 days'
-Access through command line, GUI, web admin panel, programming language.  

####Most common statement:  

Give me everything! All the things!
`SELECT * FROM table;`
`SELECT` = defines action that will happen.
`CREATE, UPDATE, DELETE` = other actions.
`*` = Wildcard, stands for 'everything'
-MySQL case insensitive, but easier to read by capitalizing _KEYWORDS_.
-Also ignores whitespace butitseasiertoreadwhenyouaddwhitespace
`FROM table` = Where info is coming from, followed by name of table we are looking at (i.e. 'books', 'recipes', 'stuffs')  

###Data types  

####Core types:  

There are more types than this, but these are most commonly used.
-Strings
	*Text, string of characters.
	*_Varchar_ (short-up to ~2000 characters)
	*Text (long-up to ~ 10,000s characters)
-Numeric
	*_Integer_ (whole - or +)
	*Fixed (decimal - think currency; 13 would be 13.00 if stored in fixed data type- never more than 2 = 1.45, 3.14, 1.23)
	*Float (as many places past decimal = 3.14159..)
-DateTime
	*Date, includes month, day, year (from 12pm, Jan 1, 1979)
	*Time, hours, minutes, seconds
	*Datetime, month, day, year, hours, minutes, seconds all crammed together
Knowing what and how it is stored can save time and trouble when you are sorting, searching, knowing what you are looking at.  

###Need a table  

`CREATE TABLE table (field VARCHAR(50));` = Create a table with name 'table' with field called 'field' with up to 50 characters  

```
CREATE TABLE table  
( field VARCHAR(50), field2 VARCHAR(100));
```  

###Add new data  

```
INSERT INTO table  
VALUES ( "value", value2)
```  

"Indicates string", order matters. value2 could be variable, constant, integer, etc.  

###So you want to build a database?  

Some examples:  

```
CREATE TABLE books
( id INT(10), title VARCHAR(100) );
```  
Creates table named 'books'  

```
INSERT INTO books  
VALUES 
(1, "Alchemy for Dummies"),
(2, "Monsters anthology"),
(3, "Monsters anthology 2"),
(4, "Monsters anthology 3");
```  

Inserts records with ids 1-4 within ""  

```
CREATE TABLE books
( id INT(10), title VARCHAR(100), AUTO_INCREMENT );  

INSERT INTO books  
("Alchemy for Dummies");
("Monsters anthology"),
("Monsters anthology 2"),
("Monsters anthology 3"),
```  

Creates table 'books' and inserts records into table while auto assigning ids to those records (starts at 1).





