---
layout: post
title: DIGHT250
permalink: dight250-021716
---

###Layout



1. `display: inline-block;`
    - `inline-block` elements behave like `inline` elements but can have a `width` and `height`. By default images are `inline`, so set them to `display:block` or `display:inline-block` to make them behave.

2. `::before`
    - Do not use for content since screen readers cannot read it. Use for artsy thingys.
    - "Creates a pseudo-element that is the first child of the element matched. It is often used to _add cosmetic content_ to an element by using the `content` property. This element is inline by default." Like:

```
nav::before {
    content: "Your text here";
}
```

Adds text 'Your text here' before all `nav` elements.

3. `::after`
4. - Do not use for content since screen readers cannot read it.
    - Same as `::before` but adds thingy after element.
    - "Creates a pseudo-element that is the last child of the element matched. It is often used to _add cosmetic content_ to an element by using the content property. This element is inline by default."

Before and After are useful with dynamic content; 'polish' item.


####Floats

1. `float: left | right | none;`
    - Intended for wrapping text around images.
    - Turns element's display value into `display: block;`
    - `float:none;` is the default value.

####Clear

1. `clear: left | right | none;`
    - Specifies whether element can be next to a floating element that precede it, or if it must be moved down (cleared) below them.

####Avoiding collapse with floats

1. `overflow:hidden`
    - Forces parent to wrap around any child that floats outside of it's bounds: ONLY WITH FLOATS. Not ideal.
2. `clear: both;`
    - Brings no meaning to page, extra markup that is not good to use. 

3. So use `::after` to any element that has items that need to be cleared like so:
```::after {
    content: "";
    display: table;
    clear: both;
}
```
