---
layout: post
title: Databases 2.0
permalink: databases350
---

###Creating a new table:  

```
CREATE TABLE books (
	id INT (10) UNSIGNED NOT NULL AUTO_INCREMENT PRIMARY KEY,
	title VARCHAR(100) NOT NULL,
	pages INT(100) UNSIGNED NULL,
	category VARCHAR(50) NOT NULL
)
```  

id = Identifier, have a unique one for each peice of data.
INT = Integer, any number.
UNSIGNED = Can never be negative, stars at 1 and counts up.
NOT NULL = Not no value, has to have a value.
AUTO_INCREMENT = Auto assigns id starting at 1 and counting up by 1. Databases made for counting by humans, this is why it starts at 1 and not 0.
PRIMARY KEY = For this table, this is the unique identifier.  

###Inserting new data into existing table:  

```
INSERT INTO books
(title,pages,category)
VALUES
(“Alchemy for Dummies”, 200, "Chemistry"),
(“Monsters anthology”, 356, "Monsters"),
(“Monsters anthology 2”, 123, "Monsters"),
(“Monsters anthology 3”, 789, "Monsters");
```  
Inserts following data into table 'books'.  

`(title,pages,category)` Tells database what format you are inputting data into the table.  

```
SELECT * FROM books
```  

* = Get all the data from the table.
To get specific data:
`SELECT title, pages FROM books` Specifies that you want the `title, pages` info from the table.  

`SELECT books.title, books.pages FROM books` = '.' tells table that you want data from table with the primary key of `books`.  

WHERE field = value.
`SELECT title, pages FROM books WHERE category = "Education"` = pulls data from `"Education" category.
= Equal
`!=` Not equal (! = bang)
If dealing with just numbers can use:
`>` Greater than
`<` Less than  

Can combine multiple `WHERE` clauses:
`AND` - Both have to be true.
`OR` - Only one has to be true.  

WHERE only happens once, can't be combined with other WHERE queries.  

To get a range:
`BETWEEN # AND #`  

Wildcard text searches 
`LIKE "%partial match%"`
ie
`LIKE "%a"` would pull anything with letter 'a'  

###What about `NULL`?  

	- Data is not present
	- Cannot query 'normally'
	- Must use IS and IS NOT  

###Refining results  

	- `ORDER BY`
	- `LIMIT`
`ORDER BY field`  
`ORDER BY field ASC` = Orders results in ascending alphabetical order
`ORDER BY field DESC = Orders results in descending alphabetical order
'ORDER BY field ASC/DESC, field2 ASC/DESC' = Orders results using two fields.  

`LIMIT #` = Limits number of records returned.
`LIMIT # OFFSET #` = Limits # of records returned, starting at offset # into the table.
`LIMIT #,#` = Offset, num of results)




