---
layout: post
title: DIGHT350
permalink: dight350-011316
---

(Primary key will always be unique)

###MySQL has two languages/subsections:


- Data definition language - when working with schema.
- Data manipulation language - when working with.


####DDL:


```
CREATE TABLE potions (  
	id INT(10) UNSIGNED NOT NULL  AUTO_INCREMENT PRIMARY KEY,  
	name VARCHAR(20) NULL,  
	appearance VARCHAR(50) NOT NULL,  
	effect VARCHAR(100) NOT NULL,  
	cost INT(3) UNSIGNED NULL  
)  

ENGINE = InnoDB  
```  


InnoDB and MyISAM MySQL ENGINES


InnoDB allows you to connect data from different tables. Will carry changes across tables, if set up properly; MyISAM doesn't do this. 


MyISAM is default MySQL engine, have to manually reset to InnoDB if you want InnoDB.


####DML:


```
INSERT INTO potions  
(name, appearance, effect, cost)  
VALUES  
(  
   "Become-A-Bard",  
   "Jade with streaks of bright green.   Smells like freshly cut grass.",  
   "Voice becomes an unbearable and  deafening sound for a short period  
   of time.",  
   5  
),  
...
```  

###CREATE  


`INSERT INTO table VALUES ("value")`


Order and number of values matter


Can get around this by using:



`INSERT INTO table (field, field) VALUES ("value", "value")`



A way to `INSERT` into a specific field by using `SET`:



`INSERT INTO table SET field="value",field="value"`



###UPDATE


`UPDATE` query very simple, so don't mess things up. 



```
UPDATE table  
SET field="value", field="value"  
WHERE field="value"  
```


This takes the value given in `SET field="value"` and changes it out with the value in `WHERE field="value"` OR the value given after;


`SET here="abc123", here="hehe"`


Replaces abc123 with hehe.



_`WHERE` clause here is vital; without it every single field in database would be updated with given value._



Usually never touch or update the `id` field. I.E. don't do it.



###DELETE

Very simple, so can go very wrong!



```
DELETE FROM table  
WHERE field="value"  
```


_`WHERE` clause here is vital; without it every single field in database would be deleted._


Pretty much impossible to recover from global `DELETE`; _have to have `WHERE` clause!_



###Updating the SCHEMA



`ALTER TABLE table ADD COLUMN columnName dataType`


To put a new column into table, goes in at end.



`ALTER TABLE table ADD COLUMN columnName dataType FIRST`


To put data type at front.



`ALTER TABLE table ADD COLUMN columnName dataType AFTER otherColumn`


To put column after another column.


###Other stuffs


To change a column use:

`ALTER TABLE table CHANGE COLUMN old new dataType`


dataType not necessary unless you want to change it.



`ALTER TABLE table DROP COLUMN columnName`


Use to delete(drop) column and wipe out all data in those fields.



###AGGREGATION


`COUNT(field)`

Use to count all values in fields, can use with any field type.


`SUM(field)`

Use to find total of fields, adds all values in fields. Only for integers. Here are some more that do what you think:


`AVG(field)`


'MAX(field)'


`MIN(field)`







