---
layout: post
title: DIGHT350
permalink: dight350-021716
---

###PHP Advanced

####&& || AND OR


`$$` = and 
`||` = or

These have higher precedence over `AND` and `OR`.

NOT THE SAME AS:

`AND` = 
`OR` = 

Examples:

```
$this = TRUE;
$that = FALSE;

$truthiness = $this && $that;
```

Evaluates FALSE.

```

$this = TRUE;
$that = FALSE;

$truthiness = $this AND $that;
                    
```

Evaluates TRUE.
= has a higher precedence than AND. The addition of parentheses to show the implicit order makes this clearer:

`($truthiness = $this) AND $that;`


Because parentheses have higher precedence than =, you can get the 'correct' value with:

`$truthiness = ($this AND $that)`


####Ternary operator

This is great!

Simplifies assgnments (`if`/`else`) based on a condition. Especially if you are going to be turning around and storing a value into a variable.

Example:

```

if( $valid ) {
    $x = 'yes';
} else {
    $x = 'no';
}
```

Can be reduced to:

`$x = $valid ? 'yes' : 'no';`

`$x` = variable x

`?` = what comes next is value if TRUE

`:` = what comes next is value if FALSE

####More functions

```
function greeting($name) {
    echo "Hello there, {$name}.";
}
```

Calling $name.

####Default values

Can define default argument so if none inputted you don't break the things.

```
function greeting($name = "friend") {
    echo "Hello there, {$name}.";
}
```

`= "friend"` is default.


####Variable functions

```
function eat() {...}

function sleep() {...}

$action = "eat";

$action(); // eat()
```

`()` = run function $action, give me `"eat"`.

Makes the code flexible. Don't have to use as much logic programming to run things.

####Variable scope

When variable defined the value of it is available to you. 

```
$name = "Percival";

$greeting = function () {
    echo "Hello there, {$name}.";
}
```

This will give you an error, `ERROR :: $name is undefined` because the name variable is not in the function. `{}` establishes new scope. Has to be in the same curly brackets `{}` to be accessible to function.

How do you access variables outside the scope? With:

####Closure

```
$name = "Percival";

$greeting = function () use ($name) {
    echo "Hello there, {$name}.";
}
```


####Additional loops

`while(condition) {...}` As long as condition is true then loop keeps running.

`for(initialize; condition; step) {...}` Lets you count things.

####Array polish

`count()` = Returns number of values, counts as a person not a machine (starts at 1 not 0).

`explode()` = turns string into an array.

`implode()` = turns array into string.