---
layout: post
title: DIGHT250
permalink: dight250-022416
---

###Positioning

Position all the things(elements) on all them there pages. An element becomes positioned when you apply a non-default value to the `position` property.

1. `static` appears on page in flow of document where it was put.
    - Default value.
    - Laid out in current position in the flow.
2. `relative` 
    - Like 'offsetting'/nudging it.
    - Starts from current position in the flow.
    - Now able to be affected by top, right, bottom, left, and z-index.
    - Rest of document unaffected by `relative` styled element.
3. `absolute`
    - Removed from document flow.
    - Context is closest positioned container, usually `<html>`.
    - Powerful for layout when combined with `relative`.
    - Should not be used to do entire layout, useful for parts of the layout.
4. `fixed`
    - Makes things sticky.
    - Removed from the document flow.
    - Context is always the viewport.
    - Good for navigation bars/headers/footers or anything you want fixed in the viewport.
    

####Offset

Offset properties move the element _away_ from the direction you specify.

1. `top`
2. `right`
3. `bottom`
4. `left`


`z-index` is the z-order of the element, the higher the order the higher the 'important' of the styling. Basically, higher number means that it has higher precedence over other things. Stacking order/stacking layers. Higher number = closer to the user. Most elements have a default `z-index` of 0. At most you should have ~10 layers (-5 to 5).


####Mas CSS

Attribute selector - select an element using the presence of a given attribute or attribute value.

1. `[attr]`  
    - An element with specified attr.
2. `[attr = value]`
    - An element with an attribute name of attr and whose value is exactly "value".
3. `[attr *= value]`
    - An element with an attribute name of attr and whose value contains at least one occurrence of string "value".
4. `[attr ^= value]`
    - An element with an attribute name of attr and whose value is starts with "value".
5. `[attr $= value]`
    - An element with an attribute name of attr and whose value is ends with "value".

