---
layout: post
title: DIGHT350
permalink: dight350-021616
---

###Accepting and using data


####Forms

We use forms all the time. Any login, data entry, fb post, it's all forms!

1. `<form>`
2. `<input name =" ">`
    - `id` and `name` field often the same.
3. `<select></select>`
4. `<option></option>`

Forms create variables.

####Method attribute

How the form sends information with either `get` or `post`. Transfers info one direction, one time.


`get` info shows up in the URL, so don't pass sensitive info here. Good for search or functionality based queries. Otherwise use `post`.

`post` form input doesn't carry across browser refresh.


####Action attribute

Where the form sends the information. Sends it one time one way. Default submit sends data to same page form is on. If `method` is blank the default value is `get`.


####$_SERVER[]

_ALLCAPS[] = super globals;

1. `PHP_SELF`
    - What file am I currently running? (The filename of the currently executing script, relative to the document root.)
2. `HTTP_REFERER`
    - What page did I come from? (The address of the page (if any) which referred the user agent to the current page.)
3. `QUERY_STRING`
    - Everything from ? to end of URL (The query string, if any, via which the page was accessed.)
4. `REQUEST_METHOD`
    - Which request method was used to access the page; i.e. 'GET', 'POST'.


####User input

Don't trust user input! Ever! Users can break your form/site intentionally or not just by filling out your form in stupid/malicious ways.

_Filter In >> Escape Out_

####Filter out extra spaces

Insures that white spaces are gone; extra spaces, tab, all the whiteness.


1. `ltrim()`
    - Leading/Left white space trim.
2. `rtrim()`
    - Rear/Right white space trim.
3. `trim()`
    - Trims leading and rear white space.


####Filter >> clean up input

`filter_input()`

type -- One of `INPUT_GET` or `INPUT_POST` 

variable name -- name of the variable to get

filter -- type of filter to apply

1. `FILTER_SANITIZE_STRING`
    - Filters the string-pulls out special characters and stuffs.

2. `FILTER_SANITIZE_EMAIL`
    - Sanitizes email.

3. `FILTER_SANITIZE_SPECIAL_CHARS`
    - If you suspect html/code in a field this filters it.


####Escape

Don't allow special characters.

`htmlspecialchars()` - removes special characters.
