---
layout: post
title: Learning
permalink: learning
---

For the next few months I will be taking a few college courses to finish up my degree. I am particularly excited about two classes that I will be taking: Digital Humanities 250 and 350. 250 covers HTML, CSS, and Javascript. 350 covers MySQL and PHP. I will be storing my notes from these two classes here. This gives me an opportunity to practice my markdown, create content, and track my learning. Here is the first days' notes:  

#DIGHT 350  

>“I do not enlighten those who are not eager to learn,
>nor arouse those who are not anxious
>to give an explanation themselves.
>If I have presented one corner of the square
>and they cannot come back to me with the other three,
>I should not go over the points again.”
	>Confucius  

“to gronk” - completely understand and learn something.

###MySQL ‘My standard query language’
-Talk to a database
-Ask database to do things


###PHP ‘Personal home page/hypertext processor’
-Large userbase
-Serverside
-General purpose scripting language, can be embedded into HTML.
-Use PHP.net for all questions/documentation.

#DIGHT 250

###Internet vs World Wide Web
-Internet -> infrastructure (servers/cables/storage)
-World Wide Web -> content stored in the internet

###HTML
-’Hyper’ = connect; so hypertext = text that allows you to connect to other things.
-Semantic markup provides meaning to text.  

###CSS
-Style and order HTML.  

###JavaScript
-NOT JAVA
-Defines behavior and interactions, i.e. programming.
-W3 and MDN for documentation.


