---
layout: post
title: Website creation basics
permalink: basics250
---

#DIGHT 250  

##What do I need to make a website?  

Text editor  
	- BBedit, (Sublime Text)[https://www.sublimetext.com/], (Atom)[https://atom.io/].  

Browser  
	- Chrome is the official class browser. Dont use Internet Explorer, just do not do it. Firefox is good too.  

#Syntax  

`<tag attribute="value">` = opening tag  
Next comes the actual content. So:  

```html
<tag attribute="value">  
	Content for my awesome blog blahblahblah. I like cheese.  
</tag>  

```html
This is called an element. HTML documents end in `.html` and HAVE TO begin with `<!DOCTYPE>`. All html files need the root element wrapping all content: `<html> content </html>`.  

##Tags  

###Head  

`<head></head>` -> Information about the page.
`<body></body>` -> Where all visible content goes.  

You will always be working with a _team_ of two developers: yourself today and yourself tomorrow. Write good, clear, understandable code. Use comments! `<!--Your comment here-->` they do not render, or show up on the website-you can only see them when you look at the 'source code'.  

`<meta>` element sets character set: `<meta charset= "utf-8/">` This is a self closing element.  
 UTF8 is the most widely used (look at your keyboard-that's UTF8). By defining this you avoid the browser guessing and doing it's own thing.  

 Other stuff also goes in head element; `<title></title>`  

 ###Semantic Markup  

 `<p></p>` = paragraph  

 `<blockquote></blockquote>`  

 `<header</header>`  

 `<section></section>`  

 `<footer></footer>`  

 `<h1></h1>` = heading 1 -> biggest heading, gets smaller as you go up i.e. h2, h3, h4.  

 Use the right tag for the right job. Don't just use one type of tag because it is easy. For example, don't make everything a `<div></div>` tag and then style it with CSS. This can create issues with accesibility, among other things. 

###Encoding special characters  

Special characters require special code. You could go your whole web development career and never use these. If you are working with a product you might need to use some of these.  

####Here are some common ones  

Copywright sign &copy; use `&copy;`
Smart quotes &rsquo; use `&rsquo`
Less than &lt; use `lt;`
More than &gt; use `&gt;`
Ampersand &amp; use `&amp;`  

###More meaning  

`<nav></nav>` Navigation of the site
`<ul></ul>` Un ordered list; 1, 2, 3...
`<ol></ol>` Ordered list; bullet points
`<li></li>` List item



