---
layout: post
title: DIGHT250
permalink: dight350-021016
---

###Typography


####New HTML

A lot of these can be done, visually, with CSS. These are built into HTML, or important for accessibility.

1. `<em></em>` Emphasis/importance - makes things italic. Important for _accesibility_.
2. `<i></i>` Range of text that is set off from normal text. Makes things italic. 
3. `<strong></strong>` Strong emphasis/importance - makes things bold. Step above `<em></em>`
4. `<b></b>` Span of text stylistically different from normal text.
5. `<mark></mark>` Highlights text.
6. `<q></q>` Short quote.

These are all inline element

#####Definition Lists

1. `<dl></dl>` Definition list, like `<ul></ul>` or `<ol></ol>` tag. Starts the list. Looks like dictionary entry by default. Only `<dt></dt>` and `<dd></dd>` allowed inside `<dl></dl>` tag.
2. `<dt></dt>` Definition term. Can have other tags inside.
3. `<dd></dd>` Definition data. Can have other tags inside.
4. `<hr>` Horizontal rule. Self closing. Creates horizontal line across page.
5. `<br>` Line break, acts like 'enter' button in a text document.



####Font

1. `font-family` Which font to use.
2. `font-size` Size of the font.
3. `font-style: italic | normal` Italic or not.
4. `line-height` Padding between lines. Puts text in middle and adds value to either side. Way to create space between text. Also known as "leading" in print typography.
5. `font-weight: bold | normal` Bold or not.

[Google Fonts](https://www.google.com/fonts) are da bomb, use them.

####New unit of measurement 

`em` Not the inline element. Based on capital 'M' of whatever font you are using. 

Scales relative to font size. Good to use since your page will be displayed on many different types of screens and resolutions. Most responsive designs use `em` for vertical responsiveness and percentages for horizontal responsiveness.

####More fontness

1. `font-variant: small-caps | normal`
2. `word-spacing`
3. `letter-spacing`
4. `text-transform: uppercase | lowercase | capitalize` Can use to make all the things uppercase throughout an element.
5. `text-indent` Indents first line of text.

#####Some things for fun:

Just because you can, doesn't mean you should:


`text-shadow` offset-x determines left and right and offset-y determines up and down. Blur-radius, color change those things. Example:

`text-shadow: offset-x offset-y blur-radius color;`


`box-shadow` offset-x determines left and right and offset-y determines up and down. Blur-radius, spread-radius, color change those things. Example:

`box-shadow: offset-x offset-y blur-radius spread-radius color;`

`linear-gradient()` Changes color from one to another. Angle with degree, to side or corner, color stops. Treated as an image, not a color-can't apply background image and linear-gradient. Example:

`background: linear-gradient(to right, red, orange, yellow, green, blue, indigo, violet);`





